# Sentiment analysis of social media users using Natural Language Processing and Machine Learning

Stress in students is a worrying factor and many times it leads to depression/hypertension, where in a few cases, the person may take drastic steps. Majority of the people use smartphones and are very active on social media. The tool we are working on is used to understand the psychological and emotional state of the people(/students) by analyzing their social media behavior.

The tool works on integration with any of the social media platforms. We perform NLP techniques and analyse the data retrieved from the posts shared by the user. We analyze the posts using sentiment dictionaries like vader.  We used twitter API called tweepy to collect the tweets and we performed sentiment analysis using vader sentiment dictionary. We analyze the recent tweets of a person and we give high priority to the most recent tweet (by the person) in determining his/her  emotional state. Once we are able to conclude if a person is feeling depressed then we extract the set of people who are common in both followers and following verticals of the user and send them a notification which says the person is depressed, since we don't have any official authentication to the database (in this instance twitter database)  so, we are popping a notification to common people in both the verticals but if given the access to database the notification can be sent directly to the people whom the person contacts the most by analyzing the profile data.

